jupyter_example_pipeline
==================

**Simple example on how you can automate reproducible analyses using jupyter notebooks**

This repository demonstrates how jupyter notebooks can be used to run reproducible research;
the example assumes that the end result of the analysis is a sharable web-page with free text,
plots, and the code used to generate them. The code is hidden for easy digestion by
non-computational people and to improve general readability.

Everything is controlled by a makefile, so there is absolutely no need to open an
interactive jupyter session (except to create the notebook in the first place).

The analysis scenario assumes that the data necessary to the plots is being
generated by simple scripts or other analysis pipelines; the notebook
is used solely to plot the data.

The example analysis is very simple, but one could immagine a very complex scenario,
with a data generation pipeline under the control of the makefile,
and a series of notebooks that answer several questions with the necessary plots
and small statistical tests. The output can be easily shared in the form of a
structured analysis, together with a narrative structure.

Usage
-----

Simply type:

    make all

and then:

    firefox notebooks/gene_sizes.html

Prerequisites
-------------

If you like virtualenv, you can just type:

    virtualenv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt    

Copyright
---------

Copyright (C) <2016> EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the   
GNU General Public License for more details.

Neither the institution name nor the name jupyter_example_pipeline
can be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without prior written permission.
For written permission, please contact <marco@ebi.ac.uk>.

Products derived from this software may not be called jupyter_example_pipeline
nor may jupyter_example_pipeline appear in their names without prior written
permission of the developers. You should have received a copy
of the GNU General Public License along with this program.
If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
